This episode is brought to you by Squarespace start building your website today. If you want
to websites go to squarespace dot com You can decide to look professionally designed regardless of whether or
not you are professional designer you can use their intuitive an easy to use tools Squarespace a state of the art
technology to ensure your site's security and stability is trusted by millions of
people and some of the most respected brands in the world how much does this all cost you ask.
That's just eight dollars a month and you get a freedom again if you sign up for your start your free trial today with
no credit card required at squarespace dot com When you sign up for Squarespace make sure to use
the offer code startup to get ten percent off your first purchase Squarespace build
that
beautiful. I'm Alex
Blumberg and you're listening to start up the podcast mini series documenting the launching of my
podcast company.
It's the business origin story you never actually get here set down in real time most honest and
transparent account I can make but then that happens every day in this country but we hardly ever see
firsthand starting a business. You're listening to Episode five. If this is the
first episode you've heard you might want to go back and listen from the beginning but just to recap previously
on
startup things were starting to look up for my co-founder Matt and me. We had investors money in the bank.
OK So so we did a check the account
balance
and eighty five thousand dollars but there was still a problem when I went to
California to pitch my idea a network of podcasts focusing on narrative journalism and storytelling to
an investor named Matt Mazzeo one of his main comments was about that name on our
debit card the American public casting corporation.
I don't love the name a whole of the name is that this funny sort of callback to this all of
the Old Media times and leg with A.B.C. T.V.'s you know what I
mean
APC's. So I get it. But. OK. One man's opinion
but I was starting to learn an opinion that was almost universally
shared.
Here's just a partial list of the people who also hated the name A.P.C. my wife. Many of
my friends and colleagues several investors and my co-founder at
LIBOR I don't like it. I love
podcasts and if you listen to podcasts and you think it's a great name. But if you don't listen to
podcasts just on the oh this is a company that does something that's difficult.
And so I don't think we should embrace the legacy technology that even we acknowledge is
not going to continue to exist. It's an off putting them.
There's that word in their pod casting matchpoint is that by name ourselves
American pod casting Corp we're throwing our lot directly into whatever association people have in
their minds about the word podcasting he thinks we need a name that sets us
apart and we need it sooner rather than
later money is starting to come in we need a name that we can both agree on.
And so we've gathered in matts backyard to brainstorm late afternoon on a summer weekend and we're in
a good mood. We might be a little drunk actually we sound a little drunk compared to pitching investors
or negotiating our equity split brainstorming a name. Seems like
fun and the thing back to the stage we found so innocent. We had no idea
the anxiety the cost the time we would invest in coming up with a name
to kick us off. Matt read from a list of ideas that we'd both sent each other beforehand. The names here are.
Resonance. Story
tone cream. Most people
grossed up with and in the I like
it cream is we can't even cream really let me just say something about cream because I
like cream because it's rich that we're both explaining our bad ideas flowing. It's
high quality it's the top quality it's comfortable it feels like home so I like
cream cream top cream tone top tone tone
ship cab you might be noticing a theme here tone based names that was Matt's version
of American pod casting corporation would have a tonal
list. Just don't get to list at all like I feel like I don't
like those
those I feel like totalist.
For
one thing after a horse
the kid
was a dual catch on. No I mean it happens to be the name of a horse
named after
hours
the
day we were discovering distinct preferences and naming Matt was more comfortable with a short sleek
a vocative name that might be right for a tech firm. I was more partial to Baroque tweak
throwback names more Brooklyn based artist no pickle
company to shake us out of Iraq. We decided to resort to other languages. Matt went on
Google translate and started looking up words like audio and story and here in various
foreign languages Italian French and Garion. And then we hit
on Esperanto
I think as Brant is going to help us here.
Esperanto the utopian dream of universal language developed in the late nineteenth century
to according to Wikipedia transcend nationality and foster peace and
international understanding. What could be more perfect as a basis for our name.
We went on an aspirin to
binge talk in Esperanto disco a little
weird honest on a stand. Sounds like centuries of Republican
companionship can Alecto little hard to pronounce. But then we found
it a row and I like a relative that is what is irrelevant.
That's near and in
Esperanto I don't I think I like the sound for all.
It sounds like aural and also it also sounds like Oreo which everybody has good feelings
about a real
low above of all these broader words like a role is very
pleasing or relevant
the the. One two three and three right.
Later that night. And our new name by my wife
nominee a
rela around locally.
A real low. What is that a but is that supposed to
mean. Well
it's it's here in Esperanto.
Load
of
a good the
right to
want to have organically. How does
that come up are Janet Clee I was like he has
Bronco a
do not mean was not alone.
Some people like to row but most reactions were violently and definitively against for most people
it called to mind the word Borel which is not a positive association something gross
icky and moist.
In other words we were back at square one what we thought would be a simple summer afternoon exercise which turned out to be
much more
difficult and time was ticking our company needed a website and a domain we
needed email addresses and business cards and a logo and a visual identity and before we could do any of
that we needed a name.
Coming up our quest for a name is stymied by an unlikely opponent. That's coming up
after word from our sponsors.
Start up is brought to you by each shares modern equity management for private companies from formation
to I.P.O. understanding the ownership of a company is complicated and imagine how complicated it gets as you start
bringing on investors and hiring
employees likely there's. Shares issue stock options and other securities
entirely electronically no more paper out of date spreadsheets to figure
out how much you or someone else owns of your company your cap they will always be
correct and as your company grows. There are some other things you need to take care of related to equity shares is
the largest For own nine a provider in the country with pricing starting as low as ninety nine
dollars a month ninety nine dollars a month for a four zero nine a
valuation cap tables for and I know a valuation setting aside an option pool expensing those
options generating tax forms each shares can help you with all of it get started with the shares early
on so you don't have to worry about it down the road when you can rack up lots of legal
fees for start up with new shares offering a special fifty percent off discount to onboard your
cap table just go to shares Inc dot com slash start up to get
started today's program is also sponsored by auto bolt with over one hundred eighty thousand
audiobook titles a talk with audible subscriber Yasmeen Gaga told me that she has been a
subscriber since she was a student in Istanbul.
Yeah I started listening to I would
like commute from the Asian part of the European kind
of like the one in
and I
love because when he was saying the Asian side of his temple I was like oh there must be like an
Asian neighborhood or something like up and now you're talking the one that's on the Asian continent was when the
Europeans. Wow audible proving
your international Audible dot com slash start up and find something for
yourself in whatever genre with a free trial and a free book a free
book Audible dot com slash start
up
by fall our lack of a name was just embarrassing. I got an email from one of our investors
saying he really wanted to introduce us to someone he thought could really help us out and this investor ended his email
with this line quote Do you have a business email now the G. Mail thing isn't the strongest but for. Word.
But it wasn't just our own limited imaginations that were keeping us from a name we had the legal system working against
us as
well for example in late summer after many sessions and e-mails back and forth. We've finally hit
on a name that felt good signal bureau signal it had a nice feel in your mouth it was a
vocative and also turns out already trademarked trademark number eight six
two two zero two eight
five for the Daily Signal a website launched by the conservative think tank
the Heritage Foundation.
There was one sentence in their trademark application that sunk us the claim that The Daily Signal website would provide
quote video and audio podcast featuring politics policy
news conservative commentary another name we really liked range media sure there was
an Australian navy company called range media that specialized in making industrial videos about livestock
for Australian agribusiness but we didn't infringe on them. We did
infringe on these
guys to me in that brief a big deal here big beautiful
job with the ship flag in
say a country and western internet radio station out of Southern California
called range radio internet radio and podcasting were too close for comfort that our
lawyer range is
out a lot he's a wastin Bozak Santa suits come home right.
And
this is a problem that others have noticed in fact it's reached a level of satire witness
this fantastically profane clip from a recent episode of the cartoon South
Park in which Stan and Cartman the boys try and launch their own start up only to encounter the exact
same problems with trademark that we were play the clip now of them spit balling names in
their lawyers
office and I should say if you don't like aggressively offensive language or laughing.
Fast forward forty seconds. Seriously there's a lot of bad language so
if you're not into it fast or. OK. He got angry quick spasm.
Oh
sorry let
me know.
Lubricated Kitty burgers. That's taken to in different
rectal semen
sleuths sorry indifferent rego seen its beauty taken
time I suppose the name I start up company every name is I
get I told you you just have to be really original with your company name. There's a lot of start
up companies these days.
Very bad not menacingly on a table Incorporated. That's available.
Congratulations. So one route around this legal problem is the South Park option get progressively
crazier and more outlandish with the name come up with our own version of free balls plopped menacingly on the
table
Inc and. You see this a lot in naming Have you ever wondered why every Internet company nowadays
seems to end with L Y R I F Y It's to get around this very problem that we and the South Park
kids were facing we found over one hundred names like this right off the
bat bit league optimized lease warmly postcard Li bug a five
metafile Spotify just to name a few there's other solutions to YOU drop of
Al flicker tumbler grinder blender you add a letter dig with two
G.'s think with two
K.'s occasionally the copyright problem drives companies to the awkward place of adopting two or more of these
strategies for example loom or three O's. No
we the other way to go is super straightforward the one name we had
no trademark problems
with the American Pie casting corporation and that's because a name that is purely
descriptive isn't even eligible for trademark protection. So yes we had no way to legally stop someone
from starting their own company and calling at the American public casting corporation. But on the other hand no one
could stop us.
And besides for me a name like
that fit better with my original vision of a slightly tongue in cheek old school
name and so I tried to come up with another name like a P.C. but without the word pod casting
and also without the word American because as many people pointed out podcasting is a global
phenomenon. I think about it all the time during breaks from work or going for a
run even in my
sleep.
That's
at thirty four
morning. And I
think my name.
I think with the
name the global listening
service to us the coolest things are.
Global listening.
It's
like listening back
to this tape. I hear that arc that by this time was depressingly familiar.
There's that aha moment when inspiration strikes you feel like you finally got
it and then the moment hours or days later when you realize with shame and embarrassment
that there's an obvious and glaring problem with the name visible to everyone else that
somehow you've been blind
to that problem being in the case of the global listening service that it's the perfect name.
If you're a spy agency for a totalitarian world government in the dystopian future.
Matt and I were getting a little
desperate we needed help and so we went to an expert naming firm
called lexicon.
He might drive a Subaru Outback or a forester you might have a drive a
Toyota Scion or a Vince I would would bet a large sum of
money that you
have had a bottle of dishonesty water or stated an Embassy Suites
hotel along the way all those names have been created by
by lexicon.
This is David classic founder and president of lexicon. And he recited just a few of the names that
you've heard of that lexicon is come up with there's also a little laptop computer called the Power
Book that was lexicon the Blackberry phone. Also
lexicon. The chip that runs a huge percentage of all the world's computers the Intel
Pentium likes concave up with that too.
They agreed to help us come up with our name and wave their usually quite hefty
fee in the interest of transparency I should say I assume they did this because the publisher to the
story might generate for them but we never talked about it explicitly we just said we love your help we can't pay
you do you want to do it anyway.
They talked us through their philosophy of naming a good name said David classic is an opportunity
to distinguish what you're doing from what everyone else is doing and the best cases it redefines a
whole
category before Pentium for example microprocessors didn't really have
names just numbers. The two eighty six and three eighty six calling that chip a
Pentium elevated it to a new status. David and his team which included a
trademark lawyer and a linguist took us through their process asking us what words we felt a pit
in my eyes. Our company.
What our values were where we saw the company after five years after ten and they said OK.
We'll take all this go back and come up with a list of names for you will also do a preliminary trademark
search and present you with a list of contenders.
And then about a week later. David classic met with us in New York and gave us the list of names that come
up with after a brief preamble he launched right
in so here's the first one. It's a pretty simple one it's called about that. It's just
two words put together. We're modifying everything with media because I think that elevates you
guys right. And so here's this you know hey you know welcome to the winds united nation
of about about that it tells people that there's a subject here that's going
on than the question is is this distinctive enough. OK so here's
a second is a daily
pitch set the scene we're meeting in the New York Athletic Club one of those old school old
Money New York institutions they won't let you in if you're wearing jeans. We're in oak panel conference room
at the window you can see Central Park across the street. And I'm a little nervous about the first couple of
names David throws
out there a little corporate I'm worried is this whole process too corporate for us or not.
P. and G. We're not Intel and these names can be too stuffy
formal David continues through the list. There are tone based names high
tone fresh tone home tone true tone the replays on media media curve media
spike there were invented names when David calls coined names so Vo
invoke nothing was feeling right.
And then he got to what he called the
flyers or the next one is really a flyer here OK this is this is limb and zest. OK.
So so what is limited just do it adds flavor to a subject
brings something alive.
Lemmons us. It's too cute little on the nose but for me anyway it finally felt like we were getting somewhere
that could be right. He went through some more glisten and then Gimli years
gimlet OK Now where did this come from. OK.
Well think about you most people think about a Jin GABLER of ought to get right.
So that's kind of a fresh experience right. Right so now my job is to stop
talking and start listening.
I was certainly a couple of them stand out as sort of like I was I was immediately responding
to to I mean my initial reaction is these are really good options. I
think we have good options here.
Man I started talking about our favorites. Matt liked about that although I worried a didn't have enough
personality and actually we both liked glisten because you know had Listen in it but it felt a
little too a family on fancy on second consideration but we were both pretty into Gimblet
I mean there's just something so pleasurable that it's just so like who doesn't want
to get in line. Right
now yeah I like him a little a
lot because of the flavor of it in the face and the freshness and the
surprise that is one of my favorite names by the way I use I I can see having a
game with party I mean you know you don't want to you know make I said earlier don't
make things trite things like this and be careful about how you use it but I. I can see it working
like
that we continue discussing digging into the story behind Gimblet where that would
come from there was a major gimlet who helped invent the drink as a tonic to help with malaria. That was
pretty cool and the more we Googled the more right the name felt for example the phrase. Gimlet
eyed the expression given I had first appeared in print in seven hundred fifty two and the idea of
a piercing piercing or a sharp glance. So given I has a piercing or sharp glance
or observation came from the fact that a gimlet
circa fourteen twenty is a small sharp woodworking tool with a screw
point and cross and all four boring holes.
So it came it has passed into an adjective adjective describing
sight understanding acute sharp piercing. I mean that's gross so great.
That's what we're trying to do like in that really is
to by the end we achieve consensus. I looked over and saw Matt staring at his
phone after a minute he looked up and said I just bought the domain name gimlet Media dot
com then we all went to the swanky New York Athletic Club bar and had around a game
with lime sugar and gin They were
delicious and I wish I could tell you that what happened next was easy but it wasn't
mainly because of me and my tortured relationship to the naming process on the way home doubts already started
to creep in was it right to have another company name our company that somehow violate the spirit of
starting your own
company. I went on a flurry of rethinking talking with everyone I could frantically coming up with alternatives
to get in line the next day I came into the office and told Matt it just wasn't right we couldn't do it
having a professional firm name our startup we needed a more organic path. I thought Matt was
going to cry.
This is a good name he said we like it and more to the point lexicon already did a very time consuming and
expensive trademark search for us but I couldn't stop waffling and second guessing
was finally calmed me down was a
visit to my old workplace the Planet Money offices as their own business and I wrote my old friends and colleagues
Kwok Truong buoy David Kestenbaum and Jacob Goldstein and talking through my anxieties with me again.
Them around and I told him the name
gimlet sure easy to spell.
Like Mad Men
sex. I'm OK I'm
OK at the time when we came up with that like we
were like that's the one Gimblet it's got like. It's like it's like
simple but it's just a kid it's like it had all these like associations say sounds like
fun but then I was feeling like if it's going to be sort of like a random
association word.
It feels lame to have somebody else come up with it.
That that doesn't matter who came up with it it's the past. Right like once your company is a company. It's
going to be great and it's just going to be the name and nobody's going to care who came up with it and if your company fails it will matter either.
I know I know that to be the case but it also feels like I have like a gigantic hit in
my stomach and a way that this feels like high stakes and like the way nothing else. Things
like like Tumblr is weird but I don't even think about what it means or whether it's weird or not or whatever
I just think of it as the thing right. The emptier it is the better it is you can be anything you
want the point tickets rate is going as it's
empty gimlets a blank screen you project whatever you want to right now you're projecting your anxiety
about naming it but like once the show goes off like it will just be what your company is doing.
They are Gods pay almost two grand to do a full trademark
search this time the results came back clear we are now gimlet media.
I'm honest I'm still getting used to the name and maybe you hate it maybe love
it but our job replace the gimlet media that's in your mind right now with the
gimlet media that we're going to
build
Coming up scenes from the next episode of start up. But first a word from our sponsors.
Sort of each year's modern equity management for power. But companies from formation
to I.P.O. the shares keep your cap table updated they can issue stock options and
other securities entirely like trying to flee.
So you don't have to worry about more paper out of date spreadsheets and as your company grows.
You'll need a four zero nine a valuation.
That's right this advertisement is about a company that provides for own nine a valuations never saw that coming.
Each share the largest for zero nine a provider in the country shares is the standard
silicon valley with major venture capital firms like Andresen hard with an S. enjoy using e shares to
help them manage their portfolios monthly pricing as low as ninety nine dollars a
month for startup listeners you share is offering a special deal a fifty percent off
onboarding discount. When you go to meet shares Inc dot com slash start up. That's your shares
in QT dot com slash start up and you know we just did our four zero nine a
valuation true story. We really
did today's program is also sponsored by audible with over one hundred eighty thousand audio
book titles earlier in the program I talked with audible subscriber Yasmeen Gaga from Istanbul.
Yasmeen now works in Chicago. She still isn't thought of all that has a much shorter commute to
work with when I mention to my
current Wow. Out of an hour that the FUCK YOU
don't like it is
nothing you don't have to go from one continent together
exactly audible improving commutes. Of all sizes good ot of
all dot com slash start up and find something for yourself and whatever genre with a free trial and
a free book free book Audible dot com slash
start coming up and start up when you're starting a
new company from scratch. How do you decide how much it's worth. You know if your investors.
They're buying a piece that company. What should the price of that piece
be the price three
launch on merrily no real technology and frankly
killed early in terms of thinking in the methodology or.
That's a heavy price.
That's coming up in the next episode of startup to subscribe to the podcast can find its i Tunes or you can go
to our
website here start up dot com H E A R Startup dot com It was
designed in partnership with the design firm athletics who got the name when they moved into their
offices in an old boxing gym.
Check out their work at here Startup dot com H E A R Startup dot
com There you can also find everything you need to know about the music we used on today's show. Special thanks to
Mark Phillips to mix today's episode and wrote and performed our theme song and to build buildings great performs our
special add music a big thank you this week to Julia Barton for her wonderful editing one more plug if
you're listening to this
before October sixteenth. It's not too late to hear me reveal every trick I've ever learned about
the art of storytelling in a two day on line course if you watch it in real time it's
free to download or you have to pay some money. Check it out at Creative Live dot com Go to the
web page for just Google. Alex Bloomberg and creative
live. Also thanks to our new producer. Caitlin Roberts. That's with a K. she was
named after her aunt's mother in law. Follow me on Twitter at Apex Lumbergh also follow the
show at TOP Cast start up. I'm Alex Blumberg and to be Philip by my parents decided after a couple
weeks it wasn't right to change to Alex
instead of waffling about names apparently runs in our family. I'll talk to you soon on the next
episode of start up.